README.md, before:

# ea_enterprise
Collection of containers to run Enroll in a development context

## Getting Started

Download and install Docker Desktop.

Clone the ea_enterprise repo:
```
git clone https://github.com/ideacrew/ea_enterprise.git
```
Ensure the other repositories are present on your local machine and at the same level as ea_enterprise:

- enroll
- fdsh_gateway
- medicaid_gateway
- medicaid_eligibility
- polypress

the layout should look like this (you can change the *projects* folder)
```
~ /
└── projects/
    ├── ea_enterprise
    ├── enroll
    ├── fdsh_gateway
    ├── medicaid_gateway
    └── polypress

```

Be sure all repositories are up to date with their respective release branches before running any commands!

## Known issues

The services `fdsh_gateway`, `enroll` has "localhost" as the "server" on config/mongoid.yml, you need to change it to "mongodb" on lines 12 and 69 (16 and 175 for fdsh_gateway), but **DO NOT COMMIT** this change.
For some reason, medicaid_gateway and polypress have the correct name on config/mongoid.yml. No need to update there.


## Basic Docker Compose Commands
Note: commands must be run in the terminal from inside the ea_enterprise directory.

- Start all services
```
docker-compose up
```

- Start **enroll** and any of its dependencies
```
docker-compose up enroll
```

- Start 2 services
```
docker-compose up enroll fdsh_gateway
```
- Rebuild all the containers  
```
docker-compose build
```

- Rebuild specific container (example; **enroll** container)
```
docker-compose build enroll
```
- Shell in a container
```
docker-compose run enroll /bin/bash
```
- Rubocop on **enroll**
```
docker-compose run enroll /enroll/rubocop_check_last_commit.sh
```
```
docker-compose run enroll /enroll/rubocop_check_pre_commit.sh
```
## Basic rails commands
- run tests (inside the container): 
```
RAILS_ENV=test bundle exec rspec components/financial_assistance/spec/
```

- run test outside the container (cd to ea_enterprise first):
```
docker-compose run -e "RAILS_ENV=test" enroll bundle exec rspec components/financial_assistance/spec/
```

- open rails console (inside the container):
## when do you need to restart the container?

Very similar to the rules regarding when to restart a rails application 

- You changed something under /config 
- You need to switch branches

## when to trigger a rebuild 

- you added or deleted a gem
- you changed anything docker-compose.yml file
- you changed the Dockerfile of any container

## recommendations 

Some people complain about "writing" speed, and it's true, it's slow, however on the "experimental features", there is a new option called "VirtioFS" and its fast, close to native fast, our recommendation is to enable it

<img width="1090" alt="Screen Shot 2022-07-15 at 1 27 05 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/350422/179311143-090ab646-3b6d-441a-ba0b-cefc4d5de1d0.png">

## FAQ

- how do I enter the rails console? use `docker exec -it <container name>` /bin/bash, or via the UI there is a button to do this quickly

- why we are not executing bundle install on docker-compose? <- it's slower, and in theory, gems should not change that much

- why the shell inside the container doesn't respond to the arrows or any other shell nicety? (usually, this happens when using the docker UI) it's because it's executing /bin/sh, you can execute /bin/bash as soon as the terminal is open

## TODO

- add scripts to open the console quickly 
- add scripts to run rubocop/tests
- fix/add the Nginx in front of the services that have them on production (the one in Medicaid gateway is not fully configured yet)

Commit message:

added hotpaches directory, added preliminary cucumber support

README.md, after:

# ea_enterprise
Collection of containers to run Enroll in a development context

## Getting Started

Download and install Docker Desktop.

Clone the ea_enterprise repo:
```
git clone https://github.com/ideacrew/ea_enterprise.git
```
Ensure the other repositories are present on your local machine and at the same level as ea_enterprise:

- enroll
- fdsh_gateway
- medicaid_gateway
- medicaid_eligibility
- polypress

the layout should look like this (you can change the *projects* folder)
```
~ /
└── projects/
    ├── ea_enterprise
    ├── enroll
    ├── fdsh_gateway
    ├── medicaid_gateway
    └── polypress

```

Be sure all repositories are up to date with their respective release branches before running any commands!

## Known issues

The services `fdsh_gateway`, `enroll` has "localhost" as the "server" on config/mongoid.yml, you need to change it to "mongodb" on lines 12 and 69 (16 and 175 for fdsh_gateway), but **DO NOT COMMIT** this change.
For some reason, medicaid_gateway and polypress have the correct name on config/mongoid.yml. No need to update there.


## Basic Docker Compose Commands
Note: commands must be run in the terminal from inside the ea_enterprise directory.

- Start all services
```
docker-compose up
```

- Start **enroll** and any of its dependencies
```
docker-compose up enroll
```

- Start 2 services
```
docker-compose up enroll fdsh_gateway
```
- Rebuild all the containers  
```
docker-compose build
```

- Rebuild specific container (example; **enroll** container)
```
docker-compose build enroll
```
- Shell in a container
```
docker-compose run enroll /bin/bash
```
- Rubocop on **enroll**
```
docker-compose run enroll /enroll/rubocop_check_last_commit.sh
```
```
docker-compose run enroll /enroll/rubocop_check_pre_commit.sh
```
## Basic rails commands
- run tests (inside the container): 
```
RAILS_ENV=test bundle exec rspec components/financial_assistance/spec/
```

- run test outside the container (cd to ea_enterprise first):
```
docker-compose run -e "RAILS_ENV=test" enroll rspec components/financial_assistance/spec/
```

- open rails console (inside the container):
## when do you need to restart the container?

Very similar to the rules regarding when to restart a rails application 

- You changed something under /config 
- You need to switch branches

## when to trigger a rebuild 

- you added or deleted a gem
- you changed anything docker-compose.yml file
- you changed the Dockerfile of any container

## cucumber

It is possible to run cucumber, however, there are 2 drawbacks; first is that the gem webdrivers have to be removed manually and trigger a container rebuild (it can be enroll alone with `docker build enroll`), and the drawback is that it uses a "modified" env.rb that removes all the references to the webdriver gem, this is done automatically via a virtual volume on docker-compose.

These are the steps to enable cucumber 

1. On enroll edit the Gemfile and remove: `gem 'webdrivers', '~> 3.0'`
2. Trigger a rebuild for enroll with 
```
docker-compose build enroll
```
3. run cucumber
    - form inside the container (attach a shell to the container first)
```
NODE_ENV=test RAILS_ENV=test  cucumber features/financial_assistance/view_eligibility.feature
```
    - from outside the container (inside the ea_enterprise directory): 
```
docker-compose run -e "RAILS_ENV=test" enroll cucumber features/financial_assistance/view_eligibility.feature

```

After rebuilder the container, only step 3 is needed

## recommendations 

Some people complain about "writing" speed, and it's true, it's slow, however on the "experimental features", there is a new option called "VirtioFS" and it's fast, close to native fast, our recommendation is to enable it

<img width="1090" alt="Screen Shot 2022-07-15 at 1 27 05 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/350422/179311143-090ab646-3b6d-441a-ba0b-cefc4d5de1d0.png">

## FAQ

- how do I enter the rails console? use `docker exec -it <container name>` /bin/bash, or via the UI there is a button to do this quickly

- why we are not executing bundle install on docker-compose? <- it's slower, and in theory, gems should not change that much

- why the shell inside the container doesn't respond to the arrows or any other shell nicety? (usually, this happens when using the docker UI) it's because it's executing /bin/sh, you can execute /bin/bash as soon as the terminal is open

## TODO

- add scripts to open the console quickly 
- add scripts to run rubocop/tests
- fix/add the Nginx in front of the services that have them on production (the one in Medicaid gateway is not fully configured yet)
